# automation

source: http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/automation?s=t

the technique, method, or system of operating or controlling a process by highly
automatic means, as by electronic devices, reducing human intervention to a
minimum. 

# Trickle down economics (image)

source: https://plus.google.com/+TimElkins/posts/XSeFwQwrCPd?pid=6066026418303816418&oid=100556352810155350830

# Humans need not apply

source: http://www.cgpgrey.com/blog/humans-need-not-apply

Every human used to have to hunt or gather to survive. But humans are smartly
lazy so we made tools to make our work easier. From sticks, to plows to tractors
we’ve gone from everyone needing to make food to, modern agriculture with almost
no one needing to make food — and yet we still have abundance.

Of course, it’s not just farming, it’s everything. We’ve spent the last several
thousand years building tools to reduce physical labor of all kinds. These are
mechanical muscles — stronger, more reliable, and more tireless than human
muscles could ever be.

And that's a good thing. Replacing human labor with mechanical muscles frees
people to specialize and that leaves everyone better off even though still doing
physical labor. This is how economies grow and standards of living rise.

Some people have specialized to be programmers and engineers whose job is to
build mechanical minds. Just as mechanical muscles made human labor less in
demand so are mechanical minds making human brain labor less in demand.

This is an economic revolution. You may think we've been here before, but we
haven't. This time is different.

## Physical Labor

When you think of automation, you probably think of this: giant, custom-built,
expensive, efficient but really dumb robots blind to the world and their own
work. There were a scary kind of automation but they haven't taken over the
world because they're only cost effective in narrow situations.

But they are the old kind of automation, this is the new kind.

Meet Baxter.

Unlike these things which require skilled operators and technicians and millions
of dollars, Baxter has vision and can learn what you want him to do by watching
you do it. And he costs less than the average annual salary of a human worker.
Unlike his older brothers he isn't pre-programmed for one specific job, he can
do whatever work is within the reach of his arms. Baxter is what might be
thought of as a general purpose robot and general purpose is a big deal.

Think computers, they too started out as highly custom and highly expensive, but
when cheap-ish general-purpose computers appeared they quickly became vital to
everything.

A general-purpose computer can just as easily calculate change or assign seats
on an airplane or play a game or do anything by just swapping its software. And
this huge demand for computers of all kinds is what makes them both more
powerful and cheaper every year.

Baxter today is the computer in the 1980s. He’s not the apex but the beginning.
Even if Baxter is slow his hourly cost is pennies worth of electricity while his
meat-based competition costs minimum wage. A tenth the speed is still cost
effective when it's a hundred times cheaper. And while Baxtor isn't as smart as
some of the other things we will talk about, he's smart enough to take over many
low-skill jobs.

And we've already seen how dumber robots than Baxter can replace jobs. In new
supermarkets what used to be 30 humans is now one human overseeing 30 cashier
robots.

Or the hundreds of thousand baristas employed world-wide? There’s a barista
robot coming for them. Sure maybe your guy makes your double-mocha-whatever just
perfect and you’d never trust anyone else -- but millions of people don’t care
and just want a decent cup of coffee. Oh and by the way this robot is actually a
giant network of robots that remembers who you are and how you like your coffee
no matter where you are. Pretty convenient.

We think of technological change as the fancy new expensive stuff, but the real
change comes from last decade's stuff getting cheaper and faster. That's what's
happening to robots now. And because their mechanical minds are capable of
decision making they are out-competing humans for jobs in a way no pure
mechanical muscle ever could.

## Luddite Horses

Imagine a pair of horses in the early 1900s talking about technology. One
worries all these new mechanical muscles will make horses unnecessary.

The other reminds him that everything so far has made their lives easier --
remember all that farm work? Remember running coast-to-coast delivering mail?
Remember riding into battle? All terrible. These city jobs are pretty cushy --
and with so many humans in the cities there are more jobs for horses than ever.

Even if this car thingy takes off you might say, there will be new jobs for
horses we can't imagine.

But you, dear viewer, from beyond 2000 know what happened -- there are still
working horses, but nothing like before. The horse population peaked in 1915 --
from that point on it was nothing but down.

There isn’t a rule of economics that says better technology makes more, better
jobs for horses. It sounds shockingly dumb to even say that out loud, but swap
horses for humans and suddenly people think it sounds about right.

As mechanical muscles pushed horses out of the economy, mechanical minds will do
the same to humans. Not immediately, not everywhere, but in large enough numbers
and soon enough that it's going to be a huge problem if we are not prepared. And
we are not prepared.

You, like the second horse, may look at the state of technology now and think it
can’t possibly replace your job. But technology gets better, cheaper, and faster
at a rate biology can’t match.

Just as the car was the beginning of the end for the horse so now does the car
show us the shape of things to come.

## Automobiles

Self-driving cars aren't the future: they're here and they work. Self-driving
cars have traveled hundreds of thousands of miles up and down the California
coast and through cities -- all without human intervention.

The question is not if they'll replaces cars, but how quickly. They don’t need
to be perfect, they just need to be better than us. Humans drivers, by the way,
kill 40,000 people a year with cars just in the United States. Given that
self-driving cars don’t blink, don’t text while driving, don’t get sleepy or
stupid, it easy to see them being better than humans because they already are.

Now to describe self-driving cars as cars at all is like calling the first cars
mechanical horses. Cars in all their forms are so much more than horses that
using the name limits your thinking about what they can even do. Lets call
self-driving cars what they really are:

Autos: the solution to the transport-objects-from-point-A-to-point-B problem.
Traditional cars happen to be human sized to transport humans but tiny autos can
work in wear houses and gigantic autos can work in pit mines. Moving stuff
around is who knows how many jobs but the transportation industry in the United
States employs about three million people. Extrapolating world-wide that’s
something like 70 million jobs at a minimum.

These jobs are over.

The usual argument is that unions will prevent it. But history is filled with
workers who fought technology that would replace them and the workers always
loose. Economics always wins and there are huge incentives across wildly diverse
industries to adopt autos.

For many transportation companies, the humans are about a third of their total
costs. That's just the straight salary costs. Humans sleeping in their long haul
trucks costs time and money. Accidents cost money. Carelessness costs money. If
you think insurance companies will be against it, guess what? Their perfect
driver is one who pays their small premium but never gets into an accident.

The autos are coming and they're the first place where most people will really
see the robots changing society. But there are many other places in the economy
where the same thing is happening, just less visibly.

So it goes with autos, so it goes for everything.

## The Shape of Things to Come

It's easy to look at Autos and Baxters and think: technology has always gotten
rid of low-skill jobs we don't want people doing anyway. They'll get more
skilled and do better educated jobs -- like they've always done.

Even ignoring the problem of pushing a hundred-million additional people through
higher education, white-collar work is no safe haven either. If your job is
sitting in front of a screen and typing and clicking -- like maybe you're
supposed to be doing right now -- the bots are coming for you too, buddy.

Software bots are both intangible and way faster and cheaper than physical
robots. Given that white collar workers are, from a companies perspective, both
more expensive and more numerous -- the incentive to automate their work is
greater than low skilled work.

And that's just what automation engineers are for. These are skilled programmers
whose entire job is to replace your job with a software bot.

You may think even the world's smartest automation engineer could never make a
bot to do your job -- and you may be right -- but the cutting edge of
programming isn't super-smart programmers writing bots it's super-smart
programmers writing bots that teach themselves how to do things the programmer
could never teach them to do.

How that works is well beyond the scope of this video, but the bottom line is
there are limited ways to show a bot a bunch of stuff to do, show the bot a
bunch of correctly done stuff, and it can figure out how to do the job to be
done.

Even with just a goal and no example of how to do it the bots can still learn.
Take the stock market which, in many ways, is no longer a human endeavor. It's
mostly bots that taught themselves to trade stocks, trading stocks with other
bots that taught themselves.

Again: it's not bots that are executing orders based on what their human
controllers want, it's bots making the decisions of what to buy and sell on
their own.

As a result the floor of the New York Stock exchange isn't filled with traders
doing their day jobs anymore, it's largely a TV set.

So bots have learned the market and bots have learned to write. If you've picked
up a newspaper lately you've probably already read a story written by a bot.
There are companies that are teaching bots to write anything: Sports stories,
TPS reports, even say, those quarterly reports that you write at work.

Paper work, decision making, writing -- a lot of human work falls into that
category and the demand for human metal labor is these areas is on the way down.
But surely the professions are safe from bots? Yes?

## Professions

When you think 'lawyer' it's easy to think of trials. But the bulk of lawyering
is actually drafting legal documents predicting the likely outcome and impact of
lawsuits, and something called 'discovery' which is where boxes of paperwork
gets dumped on the lawyers and they need to find the pattern or the one
out-of-place transaction among it all.

This can all be bot work. Discovery, in particular, is already not a human job
in many firms. Not because there isn't paperwork to go through, there's more of
it than ever, but because clever research bots sift through millions of emails
and memos and accounts in hours not weeks -- crushing human researchers in terms
of not just cost and time but, most importantly, accuracy. Bots don't get
sleeping reading through a million emails.

But that's the simple stuff: IBM has a bot named Watson: you may have seen him
on TV destroy humans at Jeopardy — but that was just a fun side project for him.

Watson's day-job is to be the best doctor in the world: to understand what
people say in their own words and give back accurate diagnoses. And he's already
doing that at Slone-Kettering, giving guidance on lung cancer treatments.

Just as Auto don’t need to be perfect -- they just need to make fewer mistakes
than humans, -- the same goes for doctor bots.

Human doctors are by no means perfect -- the frequency and severity of
misdiagnosis are terrifying -- and human doctors are severely limited in dealing
with a human's complicated medical history. Understanding every drug and every
drug's interaction with every other drug is beyond the scope of human
knowability.

Especially when there are research robots whose whole job it is to test 1,000s
of new drugs at a time.

Human doctors can only improve through their own experiences. Doctor bots can
learn from the experiences of every doctor bot. Can read the latest in medical
research and keep track of everything that happens to all his patients
world-wide and make correlations that would be impossible to find otherwise.

Not all doctors will go away, but when doctor bots are comparable to humans and
they're only as far away as your phone -- the need for general doctors will be
less.

So professionals, white-collar workers and low-skill workers all have something
to worry about.

But perhaps you're still not worried because you're a special creative
snowflakes. Well guess what? You're not that special.

## Creative Labor

Creativity may feel like magic, but it isn't. The brain is a complicated machine
-- perhaps the most complicated machine in the whole universe -- but that hasn't
stopped us from trying to simulate it.

There is this notion that just as mechanical muscles allowed us to move into
thinking jobs that mechanical minds will allow us all to move into creative
work. But even if we assume the human mind is magically creative -- it's not,
but just for the sake of argument -- artistic creativity isn't what the majority
of jobs depend on. The number of writers and poets and directors and actors and
artist who actually make a living doing their work is a tiny, tiny portion of
the labor force. And given that these are professions that are dependent on
popularity they will always be a small part of the population.

There is no such thing as a poem and painting based economy.

Oh, by the way, this music in the background that your listening to? It was
written by a bot. Her name is Emily Howel and she can write an infinite amount
of new music all day for free. And people can't tell the difference between her
and human composers when put to a blind test.

Talking about artificial creativity gets weird fast -- what does that even mean?
But it's nonetheless a developing field.

People used to think that playing chess was a uniquely creative human skill that
machines could never do right up until they beat the best of us. And so it goes
for all human talent.

## Conclusion

Right: this might have been a lot to take in, and you might want to reject it
-- it's easy to be cynical of the endless, and idiotic, predictions of futures
that never are. So that's why it's important to emphasize again this stuff isn't
science fiction. The robots are here right now. There is a terrifying amount of
working automation in labs and wear houses that is proof of concept.

We have been through economic revolutions before, but the robot revolution is
different.

Horses aren't unemployed now because they got lazy as a species, they’re
unemployable. There's little work a horse can do that do that pays for its
housing and hay.

And many bright, perfectly capable humans will find themselves the new horse:
unemployable through no fault of their own.

But if you still think new jobs will save us: here is one final point to
consider. The US census in 1776 tracked only a few kinds of jobs. Now there are
hundreds of kinds of jobs, but the new ones are not a significant part of the
labor force.

Here's the list of jobs ranked by the number of people that perform them - it's
a sobering list with the transportation industry at the top. Going down the list
all this work existed in some form a hundred years ago and almost all of them
are targets for automation. Only when we get to number 33 on the list is there
finally something new.

Don't that every barista and officer worker lose their job before things are a
problem. The unemployment rate during the great depression was 25%.

This list above is 45% of the workforce. Just what we've talked about today, the
stuff that already works, can push us over that number pretty soon. And given
that even our modern technological wonderland new kinds of work are not a
significant portion of the economy, this is a big problem.

This video isn't about how automation is bad -- rather that automation is
inevitable. It's a tool to produce abundance for little effort. We need to start
thinking now about what to do when large sections of the population are
unemployable -- through no fault of their own. What to do in a future where, for
most jobs, humans need not apply.

# Mogelijk 2 tot 3 miljoen banen op de tocht

source: http://www2.deloitte.com/nl/nl/pages/Data%20Analytics/articles/mogelijk-2-3-miljoen-banen-tocht.html

In het onderzoek baseren we ons op statistieken over de samenstelling van de
Nederlandse beroepsbevolking en het artikel ‘The Future of Employment’ (Frey,
2013). Daarin is voor diverse beroepen berekend in welke mate de bijbehorende
werkzaamheden geautomatiseerd kunnen worden.

## Hoger risico in beroepsgroepen met lager opgeleiden

Vooral medewerkers in de laagopgeleide dienstverlening worden geraakt. Denk aan
administratief medewerkers, boekhouders, assemblagemedewerkers en bijbanen voor
jongeren zoals pizzakoerier en vakkenvuller. Tegelijkertijd lopen taxi-,
vrachtwagen- en buschauffeurs een hoog risico. Voor hoger opgeleiden liggen de
risico’s vooral bij beroepen op kort-hbo-niveau (laborant, verzekeringsagent,
opzichter en elektricien) en op hbo/wo-niveau bij beroepen als accountants en
analisten.
 
## Impact automatisering substantieel

Uit de projectie blijkt dat de impact van automatisering op de Nederlandse
samenleving substantieel is. Mogelijk staan 2 tot 3 miljoen banen op de tocht.
Dit is een conservatieve inschatting. Groepen die hard geraakt worden zijn
mbo’ers (1,3 miljoen) en de sectoren economie, recht en management (0,8 miljoen)
en techniek (0,5 miljoen).
 
## Adoptie van technologie van burger, overheid en bedrijfsleven

Het uiteindelijke tempo van de ontwikkeling wordt in sterke mate beïnvloed door
de snelheid waarmee arbeidsbesparende technologie wordt geadopteerd door het
bedrijfsleven. De GoogleCar rijdt nog niet op de Nederlandse wegen, maar drones
zijn al gemakkelijk te koop in winkels en 3D-printen raakt steeds verder
ingeburgerd. Ook de ontwikkelingen in de regelgeving rondom robotisering
beïnvloeden het tempo van de ontwikkelingen.

# ‘Robots kosten ons 2 tot 3 miljoen banen’

source: http://www.nrcq.nl/2014/10/01/robotisering-gaat-nederland-2-tot-3-miljoen-banen-kosten

Dag accountants. Dag verzekeringsagenten. Dag laboranten en dag elektriciens.
De automatisering en robotisering kunnen op termijn 2 tot 3 miljoen banen kosten
in Nederland. Dat zegt Deloitte na een analyse van de technologische
ontwikkelingen op de arbeidsmarkt. De robotisering treft vooral middelbaar
opgeleiden en de groep van 35 tot 55-jarigen.

Minister Lodewijk Asscher (Sociale Zaken, PvdA) zei deze week op een congres
over robotisering dat de digitale ontwikkeling op “een keerpunt” is beland.
Asscher ziet grote technologische en economische kansen, maar waarschuwde in een
opiniestuk in deze krant tevens voor “extreme ongelijkheid” tussen de eigenaren
van robots en laagopgeleiden.

## Bedreigde beroepsgroepen

De kwantitatieve analyse van de effecten voor Nederland van Deloitte is “voor
zover wij weten” de eerste, zegt John Schattorie, directeur werk en inkomen bij
de afdeling consulting. De berekeningen zijn gebaseerd op onderzoek van de
Oxford University van vorig jaar dat in het tijdschrift The Economist verscheen.
Britse wetenschappers onderzochten van ruim 700 beroepen de kans dat het werk
later door computers kan worden overgenomen. Deloitte heeft deze
kansberekeningen gekoppeld aan 70 beroepsgroepen in Nederland en gecorrigeerd.

Volgens de Britten loopt 47 procent van de Amerikaanse banen een hoog risico
geautomatiseerd te gaan worden. In Nederland zou het bij een “conservatieve
inschatting” gaan om 2 miljoen (28 procent) en mogelijk 3 miljoen (42 procent)
van de huidige 7,2 miljoen werkenden. Schattorie: “Het verschil is dat Nederland
al behoorlijk geautomatiseerd is in vergelijking met Amerika.” 

## Bijbaantjes van jongeren lopen risico geautomatiseerd te worden

De grootste risicogroepen zijn volgens Deloitte administratief medewerkers,
boekhouders en bestuurders van voertuigen. Hun banen kunnen technisch gezien
niet alleen sneller geautomatiseerd worden, maar er zijn ook veel mensen
werkzaam in deze sectoren. Grote klappen kunnen ook vallen onder verkopers,
bouwers en verzorgend personeel.

Mensen die snel vervangen kunnen worden zijn verder lopende band-werkers en
laagopgeleiden in de dienstverlening. “Ook veel bijbaantjes van jongeren lopen
een grote kans geautomatiseerd te worden”, zegt Maurice Fransen van Deloitte.

Volgens de Britse onderzoekers zou een deel van de banen al binnen tien tot
twintig jaar geheel vervangen kunnen worden. Deloitte wil geen uitspraken doen
over de snelheid van de automatisering. “Uit ons onderzoek komt dat bestuurders
zoals taxichauffeurs een hoog risico lopen op vervanging, maar ik zie de
zelfrijdende Google Car toch nog niet zo snel rijden hier. Het hangt ook af van
de acceptatie van nieuwe technologie en de invoering van nieuwe wetgeving.”
Voorstanders van robotisering zeggen dat technologie ook kan leiden tot het
ontstaan van nieuwe banen en juist meer werkgelegenheid.

# Asscher is niet bang voor robots, als iedereen er maar van profiteert

source: http://www.nrcq.nl/2014/09/29/asscher-is-niet-bang-voor-robots-als-iedereen-er-maar-van-profiteert

Minister Lodewijk Asscher (Sociale Zaken, PvdA) omarmt de robotisering, maar
waarschuwt voor de extreme ongelijkheid die daarvan het gevolg kan zijn.

Op een congres dat zijn ministerie vandaag over dit onderwerp organiseert, zegt
Asscher dat de digitale ontwikkeling “op een keerpunt is beland” en de
“vergaande effecten nu pas goed zichtbaar worden”. De technologische
ontwikkelingen raken volgens hem vooral aan de inkomens en werkgelegenheid aan
de ‘onderkant’ en van de ‘middenklasse’.

Tegelijkertijd ziet Asscher de robotisering als een grote kans. Nederland moet
er met zijn open en ontwikkelde economie juist van profiteren, vindt hij.
“We kunnen geen robotvrij eiland worden in Europa. Technologische vooruitgang
zorgt voor meer welvaart, meer veiligheid en een hogere levensverwachting.”

Volgens hem is het dringend nodig dat het middelbaar beroepsonderwijs “een
kwaliteitssprong” maakt. Op basisscholen zouden kinderen vaardigheden aangeleerd
moeten krijgen waar behoefte aan is in “het tweede machinetijdperk”. Lezen,
schrijven en rekenen is belangrijk, zegt Asscher, “maar in de digitale economie
komt het steeds meer aan op conceptueel denken, brede patroonherkenning en
complexe communicatie”. 

## De opbrengst van nieuwe techniek moet eerlijk verdeeld

Asscher ziet nog een ander groot gevolg van de robotisering: de balans tussen
arbeid en kapitaal komt volgens hem onder druk te staan. Als de productiviteit
in bedrijven sterk stijgt door nieuwe technologie, komt “de rijkdom vooral
terecht bij de profiterende kapitaalbezitters: de eigenaren van de robots”.
Ook hoogopgeleide werknemers hebben er voordeel bij: zij laten robots
functioneren.

Laagopgeleide werknemers krijgen steeds vaker een los contract en ze verdienen
minder. Volgens Asscher “is het zaak om ervoor te zorgen dat technologie hand in
hand blijft gaan met een eerlijke verdeling van de resulterende welvaart”. Hij
vindt dat de zeggenschap van werknemers in een bedrijf – “op de werkvloer en in
georganiseerd verband” – internationaal beter moet worden geregeld. Hij
waarschuwt voor “extreme ongelijkheid”. “Dat is niet alleen economisch
schadelijk maar ook maatschappelijk ongewenst.”